This code analyzes in vivo datasets of multiplexed breath nanosensors, or volatile activity-based nanosensors. 
The intended results are to classify between healthy and disease cohorts by synthetic volatile signals generated by the nanosensors.

1. Classification of healthy vs tumor-bearing mice
   
A cohort contains healthy and tumor-bearing (Eml4-Alk) mice at 4, 5, and 6 weeks after tumor initiation.
Volatile signals were collected from the exhaled breath of mice 10 and 30 mins after nanosensor administration. 
Breath containing volatiles were measured by proton-transfer-reaction mass spectrometry and thus the values indicate intensities. 
Two datasets from independent cohorts of mice were collected, each containing healthy and tumor-bearing mice. 
The datasets were separately standardized by z-score, concatenated, and splitted into 25% testing and 75% training.
A gradient boosting classifier was implemented where parameters were obtained by gridsearchCV (cv=5).
Accuracy was measured by the area-under-the-curve (AUC) of a receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve. 
KFold cross-validation was used to assess model accuracy and f1 score was reported.

2. Visualizaion of healthy, vehicle- and alectinib-treated mice
   
Tumor-bearing mice 5 weeks after tumor initiation was randomly separated into vehicle and alectinib treatment groups.
Multiplexed nanosensors were administered to mice 1 week after treatment.
Principle component analysis (PCA) was used to visualize standardized signals from healthy, vehicle- and alectinib-treated mice.

"Multiplex_function_library_FINAL" contains the functions necessary to implement code "LC_multiplex_25-75_crossval_FINAL".

"PCA_treatment_response" contains code for PCA analysis and visualization.
Analyses were performed using Python (v3.9.0) and the scikit-learn (v1.6) package.
